# COMPE-375 Projects 6 & 7
## Project 6
This program repeatedly detects an input on the 4x4 keypad that is connected to the ATmega328pb board using interrupts. Depending on the button pressed, the program dims or brightens the LED to the number corresponding to the keypad, multiplied by 10, percent. For example, if button 7 is pressed, it brightens the LED to 70% using duty cycle. To calculate the timer interrupt period and PWM frequency values, I used the 2nd to last digit of my RedID number “826559013, 0, and to calculate the PWM frequency, I used the last digit of my RedID number, 3.
### Main algorithm/logic
This program repeatedly calls a while loop, to allow the function to keep running indefinitely to check for interrupts. When an interrupt occurs for timer 2, two ISRs turn on or off the LED which allows for brightening and dimming of the LED. There are two separate functions as they serve two separate purposes. For the ISR for timer 0, it repeatedly scans the keypad whenever detecting an interrupt, and sets the OCR2B value of the keypad as a percentage of the number multiplied by a factor of 10. The LED then brightens/dims corresponding to the percentage of the duty cycle determined by the OCR2B value.
## Project 7
This program repeatedly detects for an input of the potentiometer that is connected to the ATmega328pb board using interrupts. Depending on how far the potentiometer is turned, the light is brightened or dimmed, which is determined by the OCR2B value which is calculated by taking the OCR2A value, multiplying it by the integer result of the potentiometer value, and dividing it by 1024 as the ADC value is 2^10 bits long. By dividing by the max possible value of 1024, it essentially creates a ratio that is multiplied by the OCR2A value to determine the brightness of the LED. The potentiometer is connect to the PC1 port, as determined by the 1 value in my RedID (826559013). The OCR0A and OCR2A values are determined by the 0 and 3 values of my RedID respectively. For the OCR0A value, it is calculated by obtaining a 0+1 = 1ms period, and for the OCR2A value, it is calculated by obtaining the frequency of the PWM waveform, and taking the inverse of it to get the period (2.5ms in this case).	
### Main algorithm/logic
The main function repeatedly calls a while loop, to allow the function to keep running indefinitely to check for interrupts. When an interrupt occurs for timer 2, two ISRs turn on or off the LED which allows for brightening and dimming of the LED dependent on the OCR2B and OCR2A values. When an interrupt occurs for timer 0, it retrieves a value from the ADC conversion that is dependent on the result of the potentiometer input. Finally, there is a function that turns on the LED, a function that turns off the LED, and separate functions that initialize the ADC, timer 0, and timer 2.
