# COMPE-375 Projects 4 & 5
## Project 4
This program repeatedly detects for an input of the onboard button of the ATmega328pb board, and outputs a dynamically changing brightness of the onboard LED of the same board. The longer the user holds the button down for the brighter the LED gets, and the longer the user releases the button for, the dimmer the LED gets until it turns completely off. The LED gets brighter and dimmer based on the duty cycle. This program runs continuously in an infinite loop.	
### Main algorithm/logic
There are four functions in this program. turn_on() turns on the onboard LED by setting the 5th bit of PORTB to 1, and turn_off() turns off the onboard LED by setting the 5th bit of PORTB to 0. The init() function sets the inputs and outputs of the program, enables CTC mode, sets the prescaler, and sets values for the OCR0A and OCR0B values based on desired duty cycle and period time. Finally, the main() function first calls the init() function before entering an infinite while loop, which always starts out checking if the OCR0B value is not equal to 0. If true, the LED is instructed to turn on. It then checks for the inputs of the button, and sets the duty cycle determined by this input, which changes the output of the brightness of the LED.
## Project 5
This program repeatedly detects an input on the 4x4 keypad that is connected to the ATmega328pb board. Depending on the button pressed, the program outputs a frequency through a speaker, which is connected to a jack port, which is also connected to the ATmega328PB board as an output. The sound of the frequency plays for as long as the user holds down the button on the keypad.
### Main algorithm/logic
This program repeatedly calls a while loop, which calls the “keypad_scan()” function with no delay. This “keypad_scan()” function works by setting each row from high to low, and checking each column from within that row if the user has pressed a button. After checking the entirety of the row, it sets the row back to high before checking the next row. If it does detect that a button is pressed in a certain column in a row, the program calls the timer() function to change the OCR0A and implicitly the OCR0B value as a result, and then calls the “play()” function which plays the given frequency as long as the button on the 4x4 keypad is pressed. The OCR0A value is calculated with the given formula: ((1/(440 * 2^(1/12)^x) * 16000000) / 256 - 1, with the desired period (which signifies the frequency the speaker plays because frequency is equal to the inverse of the period) given as 1/(440 * 2^(1/12)^x).
