# COMPE-375 Projects 2 & 3
## Project 2
The program repeatedly prints my RedID followed by /r and /n characters “826559013\r\n” into a PuTTY terminal, with a delay of 500ms. This program runs continuously in an infinite loop by having the main function call a separate function to transmit each character one by one until it reaches the end of the string.	
### Main algorithm/logic
The “uart_init()” functions contains initialization processes to ensure the proper settings for receiving and transmitting data with UART. The “uart_transmit” function contains a single while loop that waits for the USART data register to be free before loading any data to this register. Finally, the “main()” function calls the “uart_init()” function once, and repeatedly calls a while loop, which calls the “uart_transmit()” function to transmit each character of the array “redID” until it reaches the end of the string. There is a 500ms delay before again calling this while loop.
## Project 3
The program repeatedly detects inputs of an external 4x4 keypad, and outputs the corresponding ASCII character into the data visualizer terminal with USART. It specifically does not allow for the user to hold down on a button to repeatedly output the ASCII character as a keyboard would. It waits for the user to release the button before again searching for another input. This program runs continuously in an infinite loop by having the main function call a separate function that scans the keypad.			
### Main algorithm/logic
Like lab 2, the “uart_init()” functions contain initialization processes to ensure the proper settings for receiving and transmitting data with USART. The “uart_transmit” function contains a single while loop that waits for the USART data register to be free before loading any data to this register.

However, after the “main()” function calls the “uart_init()” function once, it repeatedly calls a while loop, which calls the “keypad_scan()” function with no delay after that scans the 4x4 keypad. This “keypad_scan()” function works by setting each row from high to low, and checking each column from within that row if the user has pressed a button. After checking the entirety of the row, it sets the row back to high before checking the next row. If it does detect that a button is pressed in a certain column in a row, it enters an infinite while loop until the button is released before it transmits a signal by calling the “uart_transmit()” function. This means the signal is only transmitted upon release of the button. If the signal were wanted to be transmitted upon pressing the button and not upon release, the developer would simply call the “uart_transmit()” function before entering the while loop waiting for the button to be released.
